Understanding Windows Privileges
and Integrity Levels
Privileges on Windows operating
systems refer
to the permissions of a specific account
to perform system-related actions,
such as modifying the filesystem,
adding users, shutting down
the system and so on.
For these privileges
to be effective,
Windows uses objects
called access tokens.
Once a user is authenticated,
Windows generates an access token
that is assigned to that user.
The token itself contains various
pieces of information
that describe the security context of the
user, including the user privileges.
Tokens need to be uniquely identifiable
depending on the information they contain.
This is done using a security
identifier or SID,
which is a unique value that is
assigned to each object,
including tokens, user accounts
and group accounts.
In addition to privileges, Windows also
implements an integrity mechanism.
This is a core component of
the Windows security architecture
and works by assigning integrity
levels to application processes
and securable objects.
In other words, this describes the level
of trust the operating system has
in running applications and dictates what
actions an application can perform,
including the ability to read from
or write to the local file system.